docs: add `unstable_cache` → `use cache` migration guide (#92392)
vercel/next.js: docs/01-app/02-guides/migrating-to-cache-components.mdx

description: Learn how to migrate from route segment configs to Cache Components in Next.js.
---

> When [Cache Components](/docs/app/api-reference/config/next-config-js/cacheComponents) is enabled, route segment configs like `dynamic`, `revalidate`, and `fetchCache` are replaced by [`use cache`](/docs/app/api-reference/directives/use-cache) and [`cacheLife`](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/cacheLife). The [`unstable_cache`](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/unstable_cache) function is also replaced by `use cache`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When [Cache Components](/docs/app/api-reference/config/next-config-js/cacheComponents) is enabled, route segment configs like `dynamic`, `revalidate`, and `fetchCache` are replaced by [`use cache`](/docs/app/api-reference/directives/use-cache) and [`cacheLife`](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/cacheLife).

The `unstable_cache` is an experimental API. We recommend replacing `unstable_cache` usage with the [`use cache`](/docs/app/api-reference/directives/use-cache) directive. 
```

Optional, my point being that, IIRC, this function still works and such, it is just experimental, and we'd like people to stop using it. Also, we might want to surface that one should use, `use cache: remote`, for serverless deploys.

Reviewer: Or we should add that caveat to the unstable_cache section

Author: Interesting. How does this compare to the fetch cache still being a usable approach in some cases? It's also mentioned.

`route segment configs like `dynamic`, `revalidate`, and `fetchCache` are replaced by [`use cache`](/docs/app/api-reference/directives/use-cache)`

Good point on the :remote

Reviewer 2: Yeah I think we want to nudge people towards "use cache: remote" instead of unstable_cache. But it won't trigger a build failure the way the other segment configs do.

Josh did mention the fetch cache still having use cases in a post-Cache Components world but I think we need more clarity on that.

Author: I can move it to a recomendation section since it's different from the others. And figure out of to frame it.

}
```

> ## `unstable_cache`

Reviewer 2: I think we need more help from the team for a proper migration path here, I believe it's multi-pronged. We don't want to tell people to just use "use cache: remote" because of the costs associated with it, and sometimes folks used unstable_cache for things like db queries that the fetch cache couldn't be used on (but now plain old "use cache" with ISR storage can).

Reviewer 3: It might also be worth warning that `use cache: remote` is keyed per build/deployment ID meanwhile `unstable_cache` wasn't. This can cause new deploys to cause cache misses users wouldn't expect naturally.
